To:   mmarconi@netcom.com, grahambell@aol.com, grever@ibr8smtp...From:   Sarah Subject:  What I really want to say, I can't.Date:   1/12/97 4:47—-—-—-—-—-—-—-—— I'm gonna give this to Ms. Bradshaw, district coordinator of Special Education. Then I'm gonna give it to the State Department of Education. Then I'm gonna publish it in a paper—if they'll take it. Your comments, please? To CCSD 4/96 from Sarah Murphy Subject:   Laurel Murphy I wish it noted for the record that I feel Laurel's educational program has been driven solely by what resources the district can readily find—not what is appropriate or what could be done with a little effort.There has been no attempt to address Laurel's current level of functioning. She has not been observed by any qualified school staff since 10/16/96. The most appropriate environment has not been questioned. The only question has been, "Who will take her and not do significant damage?" I have contacted everyone I could think of and followed every lead, trying to locate resources*. I've found nothing. I believe that Ms. Bradshaw has made more than the minimum reasonable efforts to identify resources, with the same results. With the prevalence of autistic-constellation disorders dramatically on the rise, this concerns me. I also find it disparaging as to the likelihood of finding appropriate services for Laurel in the future. Either we (and all those we have contacted) have failed to identify the needed resources, or they simply do not exist. The latter possibility should be of great concern to the district. I agree that the minimum immediate requirements are:  1. A school atmosphere with individually designed curriculum, well-trained and supported personnel. 2. Attention to developing communication, social, physical and academic skills. 3. Behavior management programming with least possible use of restraints and aversives, and maximum focus on teaching functional communication, with appropriate reinforcements. 4. Behavior charting by qualified staff, with the goal of recommending less restrictive placement, as appropriate. 5. Transportation to and from educational setting. 6. Opportunity to participate in increasingly integrated settings. 7. As much consistency in staff and routine as possible.Other necessary supports, to be determined may include but are not limited to computer hardware and software, other curriculum materials, other alternative communication devices, and consultation with specialists. Laurel must participate in a loosely structured, integrated environment in her own neighborhood. This will continue the critical association with her neighborhood peers, and provide the peer role-modeling that Laurel needs and deserves. The school may set definite objective criteria for the progression of this component. I would suggest that she be accompanied by a trained one-on-one, and that her readiness to participate be recommended by two observers acceptable to the district, who should also be involved in the training of the integration assistant. Participation should be for no less than four hours each week, in two or more sessions per week. I submit the following facts for consideration:   1) In Fall of 1993, as a condition of my agreement to have Laurel removed from the neighborhood school (Cattail Elementary) to a center-based program, I specified that Laurel must have some semi-structured interaction with the neighborhood children. Ms. Bradshaw said there would be "no problem with that." There was no follow-up. Laurel was in a room by herself and in fact she did not see other children her own age at any time.2) In Fall of 1994, the district recommended that Laurel remain in the integrated setting while working on behavioral issues. The school rejected this recommendation. I conceded the need for intense behavioral intervention and allowed the restricted "diagnostic placement" with the proviso that an aggressive plan for rapid re-integration be developed placement" with the proviso that an aggressive plan for rapid re-integration be developed and implemented. This was included in the IEP. No plan was implemented. Laurel again had no contact whatsoever with her peers. This two years without peer contact seriously undermined efforts to improve social skills. 3) In Fall of 1995, Carrie Abbott and Marilyn Lincoln had identified and documented the behaviors that made integration impractical. Programatic facilitation was available, and medical (pharmaceutical) intervention was deemed necessary by all parties, to alleviate the remaining obstacles to Laurel's ability to be successfully integrated. Pharmaceutical intervention was initiated in Feb. 1996. Both Carrie and Marilyn have since documented improvement and have been discussing plans to integrate Laurel into some classroom activities.I submit that the unfortunate change in availability of staff does not reflect on Laurel's ability, need for, or right to integration. 4) Marilyn Abbot has documented that Laurel 's primary mode of learning is imitation. Pro-active planning is critical. We must begin immediately to identify placements for the summer, next school year, and beyond (and, if applicable, additional instruction days to compensate for the lack of programming in the traditional year). The plans must necessarily be more fluid, the further they are in the future; however, these past months have provided ample evidence that availability of suitable programming and qualified staff are not obtained readily or quickly. Moreover, such attention to the long- term will help us focus on Laurel 's progressive goals.I require that Laurel's summer program address the following:   1) Peer integration. 2) Maintenance and improvement (because of lack of traditional year programming and to help prepare for integration) of academic skills. 3) Recreational skills (I suggest an informal survey of the recreational habits of typical 3rd and 4th grade girls:   to truly integrate with peers, should Laurel be able to ride a bike? play Nintendo? play Barbies, jacks, football? What do 9 year old girls do?) To ensure Laurel's future, I would like to evaluate the suitability of BD and/or Speech Disorder programs, with an emphasis on skills acquisition rather than correction (reactive programming.) All of the research I've encountered indicates that behavioral problems are largely reduced in such an environment, and that more inclusive settings are more likely to be so oriented. I realize that this is mostly "resource driven", however recent experience leads me to believe that this will be more practical than relying on availability of individuals qualified to create an appropriate program especially for Laurel . Because of the district's failure to identify and provide an appropriate education for my daughter, I was forced to give up my job. Not only is this damaging to my emotional well-being, my social network and my employment record (making it more difficult to obtain future employment), it is also financially devastating.  Moreover, it was legally and ethically unconscionable. In addition to loss of wages, I no longer had any time to do errands, and was forced to pay a respite provider whenever I needed to do those things I normally did when Laurel was in school (e.g., groceries, doctor appointments). This also made it necessary for me to transport Laurel without another adult in the car, which posed serious hazards because of Laurel 's behaviors, and actually resulted in injury to Laurel and myself on several occasions. In partial recompense, the district will either:   A. Compensate me for lost wages, at the rate I was formerly earning:   $8.75 per hour for 20 hours per week for each week that the district denied services to Laurel.  (I won't claim compensation for the hours I missed when I was called to pick up Laurel early, or the four days during which she was suspended; only a due process hearing would resolve whether it was a permissible suspension, and I'm saving my fighting instincts for more important things) through the date she is returned to an acceptable program. Please note that I do not ask the district to compensate for the time it takes me to find a new job, or for the fact that the need for additional research and development of programs covering the period after the end of the traditional school year severely compromises my ability to seek employment even after Laurel is in programming. In short, I am being almost contemptibly generous even after Laurel is in programming. In short, I am being almost contemptibly generous in this request. B. The district will hire me, retroactive to the date of nonservice and continuing until such time as Laurel is placed in an appropriate program, at the rate of $8.75 per hour for six hours per day, for every instructional day on the traditional CCSD calendar. I submit that the district had already recognized the need for two-on-one staffing for Laurel. Also, that I was called upon to develop and implement a program beyond my qualifications, and certainly beyond what would be reasonable to require of any parent. This partially redresses the damage to my future job qualifications, as it provides an employment history. I might be willing to forgive certain legal violations on the part of CCSD if this arrangement were honored. In any event, I believe that this is the just thing to do. I have researched legal precedent in three states, though I have found no precedent in Colorado. It would be nice if a qualified person from CCSD could evaluate the program I have established for Laurel and provide me with a letter of recommendation for future employment as well as a pat on the back. (I have human needs as well as legal and financial ones, after all.)I wish to acknowledge that the district provided a finances for an aide, Chris Hardy, not technically qualified but familiar with Laurel and psychologically suited to the job, beginning on March 18th. She has acted not only as aide, but as secretary, researcher, and general drudge, working far more than her allotted six hours per day. Without her perspective, social contact and moral support, I can only guess as to what my mental state would be by now. The program suffered for our trial-and-error approach for the first several weeks, and it could not be said to constitute the "least restrictive and most appropriate environment" by any stretch of the imagination. It was not "home-schooling" because it was forced and not voluntary. And it was not "home-bound", because it was not overseen by a teacher. But it was as appropriate to Laurel's needs as we could contrive, under the circumstances. I look forward to meeting with the school representatives so that we can discuss the most appropriate place for Laurel.--------------Ok guys, should I go on or stop while I'm still mad?##higher##lower___________________Sarah/ Moon/ Laurel___________________