To:   mmarconi@netcom.com, grahambell@aol.com, grever@ibr8smtp...From:   Sarah Date:   3/08/95 21:47Subject:  Flea training*So many of you have asked why Laurel is not receiving Social Security disability payments. These would pay for some of the medical treatments, food, etc.  I have tried, believe me.  I will probably try again very soon. Just as quickly as we recover from the last battle with the red-tape breathing dragon.About a year ago, I called up the local office.  They set up an appointment.  As it was summer vacation, had to take Janet with me. I couldn't take Laurel because I knew she'd tear the place apart.  So I got Chris to watch Laurel and off we went.  We sat in a hallway with orange plastic chairs until forty-five minutes after our appointment time.  Then the worker, Ms. A,  has something to say about how she's sorry to be late; she forgot to schedule herself a lunch, so she's going to have to make all her afternoon appointments wait.  I say, "These things happen."  I'm sincerely ready to blow it off.  Then she says we need to begin by going over my form S-1375/B or something.  I tell her I don't have a form S-1375/B.  She says, "Well, you can't apply unless you have an S dash one three seven five stroke B."  She stares at me accusingly for a minute.  Trying to be helpful, I say, "Could you give me a form S dash one three seven five stroke B?"She says, "No.  You're supposed to have it."I say, "Where was I supposed to get it?"She says, "From us."I say, "I don't have it."She says, "Then you must have lost it."  (Her voice is getting snippier by the minute.)I say, "I guess I must have.  May I have another?"She says, "No."  And she leans back and just stares at me, looking smugly contemptuous, as if she has taught me a lesson for my irresponsible ways, and I won't ever take HER for granted again!I ask to speak to her supervisor.  She demands to know why.  I tell her it appears we have reached an impasse.  She says that we would not have if I would just give her the form.  We go around a little while.  Janet bursts into tears.  I excuse us and go to the front desk where I demand to see the woman's supervisor.  I hold Janet as she sobs on my shoulder.  Janet tells me she is so afraid that the lady is going to take us away because we don't have the form.  I tell her I am going to fix it.  After fifteen minutes, the supervisor, Ms. B, calls us back into her office.  I explain the problem about my not having and apparently having no right to obtain a form S dash one three seven five stroke B.  She pulls up Laurel's case on the computer, peruses it for a moment and says, "Oh, you don't need that anyway."She gives me a list of the documentation I do need, and enters the follow-up appointment herself, with a different worker, Ms. C.   The next available appointment is six weeks away.  She tells me not to worry; eligibility for benefits is calculated from the date of first application, so Laurel will be receiving benefits retroactively to that date, even though we had a "miscommunication" about the paperwork needed.Six weeks later, I arrive for my appointment, documentation in hand.  I inform the people at the front desk that I have an appointment with Ms. C.  The receptionist says actually, my appointment is with Ms. A.  I say there must be some mistake.  Ms. A was extremely antagonistic to me last time -- actually drove my child to tears -- and Ms. B told me I could see Ms. C.  The receptionist informs me that Ms. B is no longer with the department.  Moreover, all cases are assigned by the first letter of the applicant's last name.  Our case belongs to Ms. A and no one else.  So fine, here I am.  I go see Ms. A.Ms. A sits down at the computer and says that today will be my initial application date since it's the first time I have come into the office.  I tell her it isn't; the first time was six weeks earlier.  She says that can't possibly be true, because if it were, we would be in the computer.  She says, "There's no way for that to be erased unless somebody deliberately went in and erased it."  (Smirk)  I say, "But I met with you.  My daughter was with me."She insists she has no recollection of having met before. I return to the front desk and ask to speak to the supervisor.  I explain the situation and ask to see a different worker.  She says, "What would happen if everyone was allowed to choose their worker?"I respond, "I guess you'd find out in a hurry who's good and who's a smirking bitch."The supervisor responded that I had the option of using the Social Security office the next county over.  She added, helpfully, that they would send over my paperwork confirming that today should be preserved as the initial application date for calculating benefits.  I said, "Yes, thank you."  Took her name and left.Eight weeks later, I have the earliest available appointment in the next county.  The worker wants me to bring Laurel with me.  She says this will circumvent a lot of the documentation.  I explain that Laurel does not wait well and becomes violent.  I ask for the very first appointment after her lunch break, so she should not be running late.After a thirty minute drive, we arrive.  Laurel is soooo good.  I am really proud.  We play games:  "Touch your nose."  "Do this."  "Clap your hands."  "Tickle, tickle, stop."  After twenty-five minutes,  Laurel is getting antsy.  I stall for time.  We walk around the building.  We go to the bathroom.  I take off her shoes and massage her feet.  Then, a miracle!  Laurel signs "all done"!  Spontaneous communication!  Such things must be honored.  But no.  We have been waiting forty-five minutes.  The worker will call for us any moment.  Well, if words don't work, Laurel knows what will.  She begins rocking, humming, rubbing frantically at her nose.  I try to touch her.  The humming becomes a screech as she lashes out at my face.  She jumps out of her seat and runs for the door and the busy parking lot.  I restrain her.  She screams and rocks hard into my chest.  I take her down to the floor, wrapping both our arms around her.  Her frantic rocking connects the back of her head to my eyebrows.  I'm seeing lovely, violet flowers blooming before my eyes.  She bites at my hands.  I am vaguely aware that everyone is staring.  Light as a cat, I spring around in front of Laurel, saying and signing, "All done?!" Laurel emphatically imitates the "all done" sign.  I say, "OK!  Good talking!  Let's go!"  And we are out the door.When I get home, there is a message on the machine.  The worker says it was less than five minutes after I left that she came out to get us; there had been an emergency.  Everyone told her what had happened.  She would give us the next available appointment.  And I didn't have to bring Laurel this time.  By the way, she had called the other office, and they had no record of my having been in.  But not to worry; she would make sure that today was preserved as my date of initial application, for calculating benefits.I never went back.  It's my fault, I suppose, for not pursuing my resources.##higher##lower___________________Sarah/ Moon/ Laurel___________________