Who is Laurel?If you have been a member of the Cattail Elementary School community for several years, you may remember seeing a sun-haired girl in bright yellows and green, with a hypnotic smile tossing handfuls of sand in the air at the playground, or running in circles on the grass. Laurel Murphy is nine years old now, living just southeast of Denver. Her family has not participated in community activities recently because of the constraints of Laurel's disability.Laurel is autistic.Because of her autism*, and in direct violation of state and federal law, Laurel has been kept out of school for the past twelve weeks. The district officials say they have no qualified staff. Laurel's mother has been forced to leave her job as pre-school teacher at the First Unitarian Church in Denver to take care of Laurel.What is autism?  Imagine your brain is a stereo system with the controls messed up. Sometimes you can't even hear someone speaking directly to you — other times the voice sounds like a freight train rushing at your face. You can't think straight because of the buzz of a flourescent light that no one else seems to notice. You may not be able to tell where your legs are unless you're looking at them, but a light touch can be painful. The chaos of colors and shapes may be overwhelming so that you have to screen out everything your eyes tell you.Sometimes you hear colors, or see sounds. All the senses work, but in mixed up ways. The world is unpredictable. And scary. You know you are afraid or hurt, but your uncontrolled brain makes you laugh. Changing your ideas to sounds, and making your mouth make those sounds is so complex, people rarely wait long enough. If they do, they probably won't understand the rough sounds you shape. And then they believe you can't think, because you can't speak.What causes autism?No medical test exists to diagnose autism. Autism is a list of behaviors. Those behaviors can be caused by different things; brain damage because of an injury or virus, genetic abnormalities, metabolic or environmental problems, many things we have not yet identified. Different sub-sets or severities of behaviors have different names:   Tourette's, Rhett's, Landau- Kleffner, Asperger's and Angelmen's syndromes, "Happy-Puppet" disease, Pervasive Developmental Disorder - Not Otherwise Specified (PDD-NOS).  The same child will probably be given different diagnoses by different doctors. Children with autism often develop normally for the first one to three years, and then skills mysteriously fade out as the child becomes more withdrawn.Diagnostic criteria include:   unusual physical attractiveness; lack of speech, or unusual speech, such as echoing another person's words (echolalia*) or using "stock phrases," like advertising jingles (idioglossia); lack of eye contact; self-stimulatory behavior such as spinning, hand flapping or rocking; rituals or compulsions, such as needing to retrace one's steps exactly or open and close doors a certain way. People with autism often have an above-average ability to do jigsaw puzzles or memorize things by rote.A half century ago, doctors thought autism was caused by the mother unconsciously rejecting the child. This was later rebuked as "the worst idea science ever had." It seems that people with autism are unable to respond to love and other stimulation the way a neurologically typical person would.Science is beginning to recognize what some of us have always known:   there is no separation between the body and the mind. A thought or emotion is an electro-chemical event. That's why drugs can be used to treat emotional trauma, grief and depression, and why love and trust can cure physical dis-ease.Who gets autism?Autism is diagnosed four times more often in boys than in girls, but some of this may be because being shy and quiet is not considered a cause for concern in girls.In the 1960s, autism was found in about four out of 10,00 births. In the 1980s, autism was diagnosed in 35 to 70 out of 10,000. Part of the reason for the increase is a changing definition of autism, and better diagnosis. But specialists who have been practicing for decades say they are definitely seeing a lot more autism, and a lot more severe autism, in recent years. Autism may be more common in families with higher IQs and more education, or it may be that better educated parents get the autism diagnosisinstead of "mental retardation" or "emotionally disturbed." Family histories are often significant for manic-depressive illness or obsessive-compulsive disorders, such as bulimia. A disproportional number of parents are involved in music, science, and computers. How can I help?First of all, be aware. Remember that a child bursting out through the exit door or snatching fries off your plate in a restaurant may not be able to help it.An adult may be working so hard at turning thoughts to words that she doesn't realize she is yelling. The mother with the pinched face and cross voice may be having a week you couldn't imagine. Work on your own application of love and trust. It makes a big difference.Second, be part of your community. Is there someone who hasn't been around as much lately? Offer to watch a dependent child or elderly parent and let that other person go shopping, or go to church, or retreat to his or her room with a book, or go on a date with his or her life-mate. Too many marriages die of exhaustion. Fatigue makes people weak and fearful. Those who need a support network the most are the ones most likely to find themselves isolated.Third, consider a career working with the disabled. There is a critical shortage of qualifiedpeople to work with people with disabilities, and the percentages affected with disability are rising.Finally, there's money. Laurel's mother is a single mother—the only source of income now for the family is a small SSI payment and some child support for Laurel's needs. Auditory training, Irlen lenses, nutritional supplements, other therapies and therapists and lawyers all cost money—far more than the SSI payment covers.Laurel's friends have established a therapy fund for her at Union Bank and Trust. Contribute today at this fundraiser, or send a contribution to the Laurel Murphy therapy fund.Printing donated by Coyote PrintingImaging donated by Graphwhiz Inc.##Higher##Lower___________________Sarah/ Moon/ Laurel___________________