To:   mmarconi@netcom.com, grahambell@aol.com, grever@ibr8smtp...From:   Sarah Subject:  Goth night at the Rising PhoenixDate:   2/8/95Janet was dragging her feet at a clothing store about a month ago, using sneaky tactics to get me to break down and buy her a new outfit.  (It worked.)  I got into a conversation with the salesgirl, Judy.  She was a redhead, strong-willed, 17-year-old.   A high honors student in her senior year of high school, planning on studying psychology.  We hit it off. She gave me her number and I called her to babysit. She can't babysit too much, what with two jobs, school, and college applications.  But she is coming over every Thursday  and calling it a student practicum.  Her high school psychology teacher is giving some extra credit for it—so it is a godsend for both of us.  She invited me down to a metaphyiscal bookstore/ coffee shop that has a "goth night" every Friday—and even got two of her friends to sit with Janet and Laurel for that night.  I didn't know what to expect.  Various people I asked described goth (related but not identical to "gothic") as "where punk rock went", "the dark side of hippie culture", and "a vampire cult."   The most agreement I heard was on appearance:  they wear black; black clothes, black eyeliner, black lipstick (boys and girls).  Some dye their hair black. They're very pale.  They dress in lace, vinyl and leather.  Some wear chains and spikes.  The clothing is vaguely (or not so vaguely) suggestive of S&M.  They girls dress slutty (Judy's word); tiny dresses, lace teddies or transparent lace blouses, short skirts, very revealing pants.  Body piercing and tattoos are common.I was more than a little nervous.I was a little surprised to arrive at a simple, nondescript storefront in an outdoor mall.  The neighborhood was nice and quiet, and the parking lot was well-lit.It did look a little like a Halloween costume party.  A couple of the boys were wearing black skirts with pointy-toed black boots.  One had a "mad hatter", flared black top hat.  Most had black lipstick and eyeliner, and some had elaborate designs painted around their eyes in black, or black and red. One had a sticker that said "I'm so goth I'm DEAD".The music was very loud at the front of the store, near the small, dimly-lit dance floor.  But the back was light and quiet enough to talk easily.  The coffee bar served coffees and teas and juice.  No one appeared to me to be stoned or drinking, although one boy was quite open about having "done something" the night before and still being a bit "out of it", and most people smoked.  There was some conversation about drugs, but I got the feeling drugs were something one did when one didn't have anything else to do.  Goth Nightat the Rising Phoenix was a reason drugs were unnecessary, counter to what some concerned parents might think.Several parents (maybe eight; there were perhaps fifty kids), concerned or otherwise I couldn't say, were there.  Most kept to themselves at a back table.  I think they were the drivers, just hanging out until the kids were ready to go home.  Some mixed easily with the kids.  The kids didn't seem to mind.  The separation was strictly based on what the older people wanted to do.  I mixed with the kids and seemed to be accepted completely.  I've been in social situations before (churches, parent teacher organizations, parties, etc.) where I knew nobody or hardly anybody when I got there and knew nobody when I left.  I was surprised to find that these kids were very outgoing and upbeat.  They moved around a lot, rather than "taking a table" in groups, so somebody new would plop into an open seat, whether he knew the  group or not and automatically be part of that group.  Somebody would wander away.  I was told, "All goths are ADD*.  You shouldn't be offended if somebody walks away while you're talking to them." They were frank and open — genuine rather than polite.There was a lot of touching going on.  People greeted and left by hugging and often kissing.  They sat in each others' laps.  Back rubs were given casually, without ceremony.  And gender did not matter.  Boys sat in boys' laps, girls sat in girls' laps, as well as boy-girl mixes.  I found out that this had nothing to do with sexual orientation.  Boys who were known to be gay would smooch and flirt with their female friends.  Boys who were straight would hug their male friends and start writhing and groaning, building to a parody of orgasm.  It was a sort of acknowledging their need to be touched, and their adolescent sex drives — getting those touch needs met and laughing at theirneed for it.  Maybe even a parody of the adult idea that all touching is sexual at that age.  These kids seemed innocently wise in their awareness that they needed touch*, and almost disturbingly liberated in knowing that need must sometimes be met without emotional commitment.  Emotional commitment is too hard to come by.  So kisses and hugs and massages were exchanged without anything being implied or inferred.  It felt good.  It didn't need to mean more than that.Occasionally, couples (mixed or same gender —again, no reflection on sexual orientation) danced together.  But for the most part, when someone wanted to dance, he or she went to the dance floor and danced.  Several times, there was only one person dancing.  This was obviously quite acceptable.  If anyone stared, it was because they enjoyed watching the dancer.  The boys, in particular, were very animated in their movements, which I found ironic for a culture that presented themselves as "dead".  I asked Judy if it would be OKfor me to bring a sketch book and sketch the dancers, and she said, "People do it all the time.  They'll be flattered."I didn't know the music.  A lot of it was loud and metallic.  Oddly, these songs would have passages in them that were almost classical — I think there was a harp pavanne in one — a gross departure from the raucous sounds wrapped around them.  This contrast seemed to be integral to the message — not a parody, but an acknowledgment that moments of serenity and introspection exist around and within the frenetic drama of life.I found myself contrasting this goth culture with the preppie culture with which I was surrounded as a high schooler.  Preppies are generally very priviledged, with bright futures.  The girls wear subtle make-up and nice hairstyles and colors like pink, yellow and green.  The boys wear shirts with collars, and nice slacks, and are very clean and well groomed.  When they talk, they are cheerful and optimistic.  But they don't say much.  They avoid "controversial" subjects and "improper" behavior.  They are famous for "air kisses", where you lean toward somebody at the shoulders and make kissing noises, but don't actually touch your lips to them.  They speak scornfully inacronyms about PDA (public displays of affection) and VPL (visible panty lines —a major fashion faux pas.)  They are "hi-bye friends" with pretty much everybody, but talk people down behind their backs.  On the dance floor, they are stiff and vacant — what they describe as "cool".  When I get to know preppies, I find that they are often depressed, feeling as if they are obligated to be pretentious, not free to be who they really are. Even the ones who are catty behind people's backs say that this is just another false-face they put on because it is expected, and they fear that other people, even those who pretend to like them, are rejecting them behind their own backs.The goths seem to embrace death.  What they stand for on a deeper level though, is rejecting pretense, rejecting small talk and posturing and pretending everything is OK (which is death, Judy adds).  They feel life intensely, fully acknowledging not-belonging, anger, depression, even death. (One told me this joke:  "How do you get a goth out of a tree?"  The answer is "Cut the rope.")  The message — and perhaps I am over-analyzing — is that life is too short to ignore loneliness and need and pain.  When you address these things, you can live more genuinely.I found it refreshing, liberating, and oddly tender.##Higher##Lower___________________Sarah/ Moon/ Laurel___________________