To:  Sarah MurphyFrom:  SarahSubject:  Myth filesThis happened more than once, for many lands have the same sort of tale. A girl mocked the boys in her village, so none of them would marry her as they grew up. She didn't mind living alone at the edge of the sea, so much. But she mourned for a child. Each night, she would walk the beach at the lowest tide, imploring the moon to give her a child just as she gave back the tide to the sea.Each night, the sea rushed back and the moon was silent and unforgiving.  Until one night, the harvest moon shone low and blooded just over the sea's far horizon. She ran to the shore, and threw herself into the reflection of the moon on the wet sand, washing the glistening salt drops of tide pools with her tears. And a child rose up out of the sea, light and beautiful as sea foam.The girl, now a woman, scooped the child in her arms and ran back to her hut by the side of the sea. She wrapped the child in clean long linens and put her to sleep. She herself did not sleep, but kept watch, fearing the moon would change her mind and snatch the child back.The child grew red and rosy, and the mother laughed to see the child playing with the tide pools, running in the daisies, savoring the snow. The child grew wise and beautiful, so much so that first the children, then the women, and finally the men of the village came out each morning to gaze upon her and hear her words. (The child's name here varies~from Hanako, Moon Flower, to  Bur“deach Gealach, Moon Bride. I do not know the name the child finally received.) The mother feared the villagers' attention might cause the moon to remember, and so she tried to keep them away from her daughter. But still the villagers came. So she said nothing, but made sure they both were in well before sunset, and she locked the door tight against the moon each night.  They chinked up the walls in their home and covered the windows so that no light of the moon would ever reach their daughter's fair features.However great her precautions against the moon, the mother could not keep the news of her extraordinary child from reaching the Emperor's ears. One fine summer's day, the Emperor's horsemen came knocking on the door, asking for the Moon Child. "We have come," they cried, "To take you to the Emperor's side. For he will have only you, the most fair and most wise of the entire country, as his bride."The moon girl smiled slowly and bowed deeply. "I am so heavily honored," she replied. "But please, I cannot leave this land yet. Please tell your Emperor that I cannot marry him, no matter what our hearts desire. And if he wishes to see me, then he must come here."The villagers heard about this and came running to persuade the girl to go with the Emperor's horsemen. But she adamently refused. They implored her, telling her that they would all have their necks slit for her impudence. The mother drove them away with a pitchfork, saying she would do the same for any who tried to force the girl away.But force was unnecessary. The Emperor himself came soon after, just to listen to the spell of the girl's singing while she wove the mats for the house.   He stood spellbound all of the first day, content merely to be within the sphere of her beauty.  The second day he stayed away and sent her love poems.  She returned them unread.The third day, he gathered his courage and knocked upon her door.  The mother served them tea cakes.  The moon girl knelt prettily, her dainty ankles tucked carefully under her.  She mentioned a poet.  He mentioned another.  They talked long into after the sun had set.  (Stories diverge here also.  Some say he courted for a single day, others a year and a day, still others over a hundred years.  Whatever the length, all the stories agree that still the girl would not leave to go with him and still the mother locked the door tight against the night.)The Emperor was not satisfied with merely noonday talks, so he carefully slit a hole in the wall of the poorly made house. He opened it slowly, and the strong pearled light of the moon fell on the face of his beloved. She rose quickly, and went past him to greet the moon. She said nothing. The Emperor placed his hand on her shoulder, but she went on without feeling it.The moon's light grew stronger, forming a path right up to the door of the hut. The moon child climbed the path without a backwards glance.The story usually ends here. At any rate, it does not go on, in any of its variations, to detail how the Emperor broke the news to the mother.___________________Sarah/ Moon/ Laurel___________________