 To:  mmarconi@netcom.com, grahambell@aol.com, grever@ibr8smtp...From:  Sarah Date:  5/23/96 20:  04Subject:  Take two. Cut. Retake.I want to write happy and sweet cause it's just nearly dawn, and the birdies are hardyring away wondering where they are going to go this fall, and some idiot ghost of a past voice is singing morning has broken. I think it was my voice. I dunno. I haven't had any sleep—Laurel is still up and I haven't dared sleep while she is raging. The door alarms have gone off twice in the last three hours. So far, I've managed to beat her to it. Typing seems to calm her, although I am not sure about the hum of the computer. So I'll sit and 'splore with you guys. If you've heard it all before, don't bother with the rest of this.The background goes something like this. Laurel is definitely an aborigine from the moon. We all know this, but I give just a couple more recent examples to illustrate my point. The child is one frustrated walkabout. But if I could just figure out why (or even have a half-second warning ahead of time) we wouldn't be so damned stymied. Let me explain. It's the only fun I'm gonna get today.Sunday, Laurel walked up to the gas station and I followed (what choice did I have?) I had no way of knowing where she was going, and I had not had time to grab my purse. Also, Kodi-dog was with us, without a leash. I managed to tackle her and sit on her while holding the dog, but I only managed this at the last possible minute so we were at an awkward place, laying in the doorway, tasting the greasy metal, and blocking all paying customers. Couldn't even call for help, let alone get Laurel anything she wanted. I sent a pleading look at the clerk, asked him to call my buddy Chris. The clerk cheerfully phoned from inside his bullet-proof case. My buddy Chris sent her husband in his spiffy new Jeep, who picked up Laurel and dragged her screaming into the Jeep. To calm her a bit, we shouted the first line of Peanut, peanut butter, which anyone who knows me knows really well. An hour or two later, she walked out again. This time I grabbed my purse before following her. It had been raining, so I sent Janet back to get her raincoat and catch up to us on her bike. She let Kodi out in the process. Laurel took a short cut, ducking through a gap in a fence too small for the bike. I told Janet to lock it up and join us on foot, but she lost us in the delay. So there I was with Laurel wandering around in a cold muddy field and my unleashed dog, and my seven year old daughter missing. I tried to get Laurel to go back, and she simply wouldn't. She sat on the muddy ground (it had rained hard, with some occasional sleet) in those intervening two hours between trips) and kicked at me. I finally put her in a half-Nelson (as I understand it — I was never an athlete) and lifted her essentially by her head. She would move forward a few feet before struggling away. We progressed about thirty feet that way before she figured out how to keep my near frozen fingers from getting a purchase on her mud-slippery limbs. Then I grabbed her by the hair and led her, which worked for another twenty feet before she began grabbing me by the hair, ripping off and flinging my glasses. Fortunately, Janet arrived in the car of our cross-the-street neighbor, whose name I still don't know. When she couldn't find us, she had returned home and summoned adult help, directing our neighbor to where she last saw us. By an exhaustive process of pushing, pulling, lifting by the jaw and dragging, I got Laurel into the back seat. It took many minutes. During the whole ride home, she kept snatching at me, ripping out handfuls of my hair. I can deal with the pain, but I really hate that sound. Janet told me she thought it was all her fault, for letting Kodi out. I told her no way. Laurel goes off sometimes and it isn't anyone's fault.  I did ask her to think next time there was a crisis, though, and try to keep Kodi from following as that is just one more distraction.  Whew. Talk about mixed messages!Who was it who noted the aggression happens when Laurel ventures anywhere away from a narrowly defined comfort zone (her small classroom, her backyard, her room, her kitchen)? "Tis true. I truly feel that Laurel rages in her walls of frustration at her inability to communicate, and her perception that her needs are being unreasonably denied. C'est trop vrai that she doesn't often get her way, mostly because I don't know what her way is, but often for other reasons—like I haven't brought my purse, or I need to look after Janet, or the dog is with us or some such. I don't think Laurel is aware enough of money or of other's needs and various rules to know more than just "Mom's being mean." When we are home, Laurel can get almost anything she wants. When she needs help with something, she can say "Guh" to ask me to come with her, and show me what is wrong. Fights are nearly always about wanting to go somewhere, and I don't understand. I'm gonna quit typing now and put some calamine lotion on my cuts (No peroxide left, I gotta get stock in a medical company, or at least stock up more) and then wash the mud out of what's left of my hair, see if Laurel is calm enough to go to class so I can get to the preschool and teach. Wonder if they'll ask about the pink stuff?##higher##lower___________________Sarah/ Moon/ Laurel___________________